# CS340
Client/Server Development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
The modular design of my CRUD python module makes it reusable in other projects and easily modifiable siince the logic (database operations) is seperate from the dashboard logic. The well documented comments on code and the README file provides other users and developers a easy way to comprehend and modify the module as needed. I also utilized exception handling to manage connection issues and invalid inputs, making the module more reliable and easier to debug. The modular design and iterative approach (testing each function as I developed it) allowed me to catch bugs early and improve quality of the project. I can use this module in future project that require MongoDB manipulation or as a templete for other database interactions.      

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
I identify (often with client requirements) the needs of the user or group by carefully analyzing all information provided to me and will seek additional information if needed (through feedback, interviews or additional files). After the requirements analysis, planning and mapping out a solution will begin my approach to developing the solution through the iterative development methodology. Working on the backened (database operations through the CRUD python module) and progressing to the dashboard interface then adding visualization kept the scope of the project managable and not overwhelming. The project requirements differed from previous coursework as it focused on real-world business requirements and not only did I have to develop backend (technical) operations but provide a dashboard for a normal user to utulize (real-worl scenario). The visual component of the project set it apart from previous projects I've worked on. For future projects that require databases, I'm highly impressived with MongoDB and the Dashboard (JupyterDash) and will utulize it features and benefits to provide a interactive solution to client requests.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer Scientist develop solution to meet user needs and provide value to the business. In my project for Grazioso Salvare, I provided effecient way of searching records for suitable rescue dogs that would otherwise been a painful process of searching manually. The data visualization provided the business with an interactive chart (pie chart) to quickly analyze the available dogs and geo location for the dog when selected. This solution gives the business (Grazioso) the tools to make quick and effecient decisions, saving them time and money.   

